doc/audit/builtin_maps.rst, before:

Built-in Maps
=============

``public:ccf.gov.``
-------------------

``members.certs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

X509 certificates of all members in the consortium.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Member certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``members.encryption_public_keys``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Public encryption keys submitted by members to the network. The recovery share for each member is encrypted by the key they have submitted.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Member public encryption key, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``members.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Participation status and auxiliary information attached to a member.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member's X509 certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::MemberDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::MemberStatus
   :project: CCF

``members.acks``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Member acknowledgements of the ledger state, each containing a signature over the Merkle root at a particular sequence number.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::MemberAck
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::StateDigest
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::SignedReq
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``users.certs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

X509 certificates of all network users.

**Key** User ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the user certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** User certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``users.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Auxiliary information attached to a user.

**Key** User ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the user certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::UserDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``nodes.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Identity, status and attestations (endorsed quotes) of the nodes hosting the network.

**Key** Node ID: SHA-256 digest of the node public key, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::NodeStatus
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfoNetwork
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfoNetwork_v2
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::QuoteInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::QuoteFormat
   :project: CCF

``nodes.endorsed_certificates``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Key** Node ID: SHA-256 digest of the node public key, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Node service-endorsed certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``nodes.code_ids``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Versions of the code allowed to join the current network on :doc:`SGX <../operations/platforms/sgx>`.

**Key** MRENCLAVE, represented as a base64 hex-encoded string (length: 64).

**Value** Status represented as JSON.

**Example**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code ID
     - Status
   * - ``cae46d1...bb908b64e``
     - ``ALLOWED_TO_JOIN``

``nodes.snp.host_data``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Attestation report host data field for nodes that are allowed to join the current network on :doc:`SNP <../operations/platforms/snp>`.

**Key** Host data: The host data.

**Value** Metadata: The platform specific meaning of the host data.

``nodes.snp.measurements``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Measurement that nodes can run and join the current network on :doc:`SNP <../operations/platforms/snp>`.

**Key** Measurement, represented as a base64 hex-encoded string (length: 96).

**Value** Status represented as JSON.

**Example**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code ID
     - Status
   * - ``ede8268...01b66ed1``
     - ``ALLOWED_TO_JOIN``

``service.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service identity and status.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::ServiceStatus
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::ServiceInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. mermaid::

    graph TB;
        Opening-- transition_service_to_open -->Open;
        Recovering-- "transition_service_to_open (recovery)"-->WaitingForRecoveryShares;
        WaitingForRecoveryShares -- member shares reassembly--> Open;
        Open-- "start in recovery"-->Recovering;

``service.config``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service configuration.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::ServiceConfiguration
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``service.previous_service_identity``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PEM identity of previous service, which this service recovered from.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Previous service identity, represented as a PEM-encoded JSON string.

``service.acme_certificates``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Key** Name of a network interface (string).

**Value** Endorsed TLS certificate for the interface, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``proposals``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance proposals.

**Key** Proposal ID: SHA-256 digest of the proposal and store state observed during its creation, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Proposal as submitted (body of proposal request), as a raw buffer.

``proposals_info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Status, proposer ID and ballots attached to a proposal.

**Key** Proposal ID: SHA-256 digest of the proposal and store state observed during its creation, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::jsgov::ProposalInfoDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::ProposalState
   :project: CCF

``modules``
~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript modules, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Module name as a string.

**Value** Contents of the module as a string.

``modules_quickjs_bytecode``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript engine module cache, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Module name as a string.

**Value** Compiled bytecode as raw buffer.

``modules_quickjs_version``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript engine version of the module cache, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** QuickJS version as a string.

``js_runtime_options``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
QuickJS runtime memory, accessible by Javascript endpoint function.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JSRuntimeOptions
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``endpoints``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript endpoint definitions.

**Key** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::endpoints::EndpointKey
   :project: CCF
   :members:

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::endpoints::EndpointProperties
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::endpoints::Mode
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::endpoints::ForwardingRequired
   :project: CCF

``tls.ca_cert_bundles``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CA cert bundle storage table, these bundles are used to authenticate connections to JWT issuers.

**Key** Bundle name, represented as a string.

**Value** Cert bundle, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``jwt.issuers``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT issuers.

**Key** JWT issuer URL, represented as a string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JwtIssuerMetadata
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::JwtIssuerKeyFilter
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JwtIssuerKeyPolicy
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``jwt.public_signing_keys``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT signing keys.

**Key** JWT Key ID, represented as a string.

**Value** JWT public key or certificate, represented as a DER-encoded string.

``jwt.public_signing_key_issuer``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT signing key to Issuer mapping.

**Key** JWT Key ID, represented as a string.

**Value** JWT issuer URL, represented as a string.

``constitution``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service constitution: JavaScript module, exporting ``validate()``, ``resolve()`` and ``apply()``.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** JavaScript module, represented as a string.

``history``
~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance history of the service, captures signed governance requests submitted by members.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

See :cpp:struct:`ccf::SignedReq`

``cose_history``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance history of the service, captures all COSE Sign 1 governance requests submitted by members.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** COSE Sign1

``cose_recent_proposals``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Window of recent COSE signed proposals, kept for the purpose of avoiding potential replay. Submitted proposals must be newer than the timestamp of the median, and not collide with any entry.

The window size is set to 100 by default, but can be overriden by setting `recent_cose_proposals_window_size` in ``public:ccf.gov.service.config``.

**Key** ccf.gov.msg.created_at field from COSE protect header, as a string zero-padded to 10 characters, followed by SHA-256 digest of the COSE Sign1, represented as a hex-encoded string and separated by a ':'.

**Value** Proposal ID as a string.

``public:ccf.internal.``
------------------------

``historical_encrypted_ledger_secret``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On each rekey, the old ledger secret is stored in this table , encrypted with the new secret.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by a node bootstrapping a recovery service.

``encrypted_ledger_secrets``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Used to broadcast ledger secrets between nodes during a recovery and ledger rekey.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by a node bootstrapping a recovery service.

``tree``
~~~~~~~~

On every signature transaction, this contains the serialised Merkle Tree for the ledger, between the previous signature and this one.

This is used to generate receipts for historical transactions without having the recompute hashes.

``signatures``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Signatures emitted by the primary node at regular interval, over the root of the Merkle Tree at that sequence number.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value**

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::PrimarySignature
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeSignature
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``recovery_shares``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Members' recovery_shares, encrypted by the keys recorded in ``members.encryption_public_keys``.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by nodes bootstrapping a recovery service.

``snapshot_evidence``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Evidence inserted in the ledger by a primary producing a snapshot to establish provenance.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value**

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::SnapshotHash
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``encrypted_submitted_shares``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Used to persist submitted shares during a recovery.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by nodes bootstrapping a recovery service.

Commit message:

SEV-SNP ACI: Store and cross-verify UVM endorsements (#5022)

doc/audit/builtin_maps.rst, after:

Built-in Maps
=============

``public:ccf.gov.``
-------------------

``members.certs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

X509 certificates of all members in the consortium.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Member certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``members.encryption_public_keys``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Public encryption keys submitted by members to the network. The recovery share for each member is encrypted by the key they have submitted.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Member public encryption key, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``members.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Participation status and auxiliary information attached to a member.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member's X509 certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::MemberDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::MemberStatus
   :project: CCF

``members.acks``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Member acknowledgements of the ledger state, each containing a signature over the Merkle root at a particular sequence number.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::MemberAck
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::StateDigest
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::SignedReq
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``users.certs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

X509 certificates of all network users.

**Key** User ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the user certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** User certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``users.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Auxiliary information attached to a user.

**Key** User ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the user certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::UserDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``nodes.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Identity, status and attestations (endorsed quotes) of the nodes hosting the network.

**Key** Node ID: SHA-256 digest of the node public key, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::NodeStatus
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfoNetwork
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeInfoNetwork_v2
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::QuoteInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::QuoteFormat
   :project: CCF

``nodes.endorsed_certificates``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Key** Node ID: SHA-256 digest of the node public key, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Node service-endorsed certificate, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``nodes.code_ids``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Versions of the code allowed to join the current network on :doc:`SGX <../operations/platforms/sgx>`.

**Key** MRENCLAVE, represented as a base64 hex-encoded string (length: 64).

**Value** Status represented as JSON.

**Example**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code ID
     - Status
   * - ``cae46d1...bb908b64e``
     - ``ALLOWED_TO_JOIN``

``nodes.snp.host_data``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Trusted attestation report host data field for new nodes allowed to join the network (:doc:`SNP <../operations/platforms/snp>` only).

**Key** Host data: The host data.

**Value** Metadata: The platform specific meaning of the host data.

``nodes.snp.measurements``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Trusted measurements for new nodes allowed to join the network (:doc:`SNP <../operations/platforms/snp>` only).

.. note:: For improved serviceability on confidential ACI deployments, see :ref:`audit/builtin_maps:``nodes.snp.uvm_endorsements``` map.

**Key** Measurement, represented as a base64 hex-encoded string (length: 96).

**Value** Status represented as JSON.

**Example**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code ID
     - Status
   * - ``ede8268...01b66ed1``
     - ``ALLOWED_TO_JOIN``

``nodes.snp.uvm_endorsements``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For Confidential Azure Container Instance (ACI) deployments, trusted endorsements of utility VM (UVM) for new nodes allowed to join the network (:doc:`SNP <../operations/platforms/snp>` only).

**Key** Trusted endorser DID (did:x509 only for now: https://github.com/microsoft/did-x509/blob/main/specification.md).

**Value** Map of issuer feed to Security Version Number (SVN) represented as JSON. See https://ietf-wg-scitt.github.io/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.html#name-issuer-identity.

``service.info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service identity and status.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::ServiceStatus
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::ServiceInfo
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. mermaid::

    graph TB;
        Opening-- transition_service_to_open -->Open;
        Recovering-- "transition_service_to_open (recovery)"-->WaitingForRecoveryShares;
        WaitingForRecoveryShares -- member shares reassembly--> Open;
        Open-- "start in recovery"-->Recovering;

``service.config``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service configuration.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::ServiceConfiguration
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``service.previous_service_identity``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PEM identity of previous service, which this service recovered from.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Previous service identity, represented as a PEM-encoded JSON string.

``service.acme_certificates``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Key** Name of a network interface (string).

**Value** Endorsed TLS certificate for the interface, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``proposals``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance proposals.

**Key** Proposal ID: SHA-256 digest of the proposal and store state observed during its creation, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Proposal as submitted (body of proposal request), as a raw buffer.

``proposals_info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Status, proposer ID and ballots attached to a proposal.

**Key** Proposal ID: SHA-256 digest of the proposal and store state observed during its creation, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::jsgov::ProposalInfoDetails
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::ProposalState
   :project: CCF

``modules``
~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript modules, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Module name as a string.

**Value** Contents of the module as a string.

``modules_quickjs_bytecode``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript engine module cache, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Module name as a string.

**Value** Compiled bytecode as raw buffer.

``modules_quickjs_version``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript engine version of the module cache, accessible by JavaScript endpoint functions.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** QuickJS version as a string.

``js_runtime_options``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
QuickJS runtime memory, accessible by Javascript endpoint function.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JSRuntimeOptions
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``endpoints``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JavaScript endpoint definitions.

**Key** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::endpoints::EndpointKey
   :project: CCF
   :members:

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::endpoints::EndpointProperties
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::endpoints::Mode
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::endpoints::ForwardingRequired
   :project: CCF

``tls.ca_cert_bundles``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CA cert bundle storage table, these bundles are used to authenticate connections to JWT issuers.

**Key** Bundle name, represented as a string.

**Value** Cert bundle, represented as a PEM-encoded string.

``jwt.issuers``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT issuers.

**Key** JWT issuer URL, represented as a string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JwtIssuerMetadata
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenenum:: ccf::JwtIssuerKeyFilter
   :project: CCF

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::JwtIssuerKeyPolicy
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``jwt.public_signing_keys``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT signing keys.

**Key** JWT Key ID, represented as a string.

**Value** JWT public key or certificate, represented as a DER-encoded string.

``jwt.public_signing_key_issuer``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JWT signing key to Issuer mapping.

**Key** JWT Key ID, represented as a string.

**Value** JWT issuer URL, represented as a string.

``constitution``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Service constitution: JavaScript module, exporting ``validate()``, ``resolve()`` and ``apply()``.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value** JavaScript module, represented as a string.

``history``
~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance history of the service, captures signed governance requests submitted by members.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** Represented as JSON.

See :cpp:struct:`ccf::SignedReq`

``cose_history``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Governance history of the service, captures all COSE Sign 1 governance requests submitted by members.

**Key** Member ID: SHA-256 fingerprint of the member certificate, represented as a hex-encoded string.

**Value** COSE Sign1

``cose_recent_proposals``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Window of recent COSE signed proposals, kept for the purpose of avoiding potential replay. Submitted proposals must be newer than the timestamp of the median, and not collide with any entry.

The window size is set to 100 by default, but can be overriden by setting `recent_cose_proposals_window_size` in ``public:ccf.gov.service.config``.

**Key** ccf.gov.msg.created_at field from COSE protect header, as a string zero-padded to 10 characters, followed by SHA-256 digest of the COSE Sign1, represented as a hex-encoded string and separated by a ':'.

**Value** Proposal ID as a string.

``public:ccf.internal.``
------------------------

``historical_encrypted_ledger_secret``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On each rekey, the old ledger secret is stored in this table , encrypted with the new secret.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by a node bootstrapping a recovery service.

``encrypted_ledger_secrets``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Used to broadcast ledger secrets between nodes during a recovery and ledger rekey.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by a node bootstrapping a recovery service.

``tree``
~~~~~~~~

On every signature transaction, this contains the serialised Merkle Tree for the ledger, between the previous signature and this one.

This is used to generate receipts for historical transactions without having the recompute hashes.

``signatures``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Signatures emitted by the primary node at regular interval, over the root of the Merkle Tree at that sequence number.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value**

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::PrimarySignature
   :project: CCF
   :members:

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::NodeSignature
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``recovery_shares``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Members' recovery_shares, encrypted by the keys recorded in ``members.encryption_public_keys``.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by nodes bootstrapping a recovery service.

``snapshot_evidence``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Evidence inserted in the ledger by a primary producing a snapshot to establish provenance.

**Key** Sentinel value 0, represented as a little-endian 64-bit unsigned integer.

**Value**

.. doxygenstruct:: ccf::SnapshotHash
   :project: CCF
   :members:

``encrypted_submitted_shares``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Used to persist submitted shares during a recovery.

While the contents themselves are encrypted, the table is public so as to be accessible by nodes bootstrapping a recovery service.
