Build CCF from Source
=====================

Once you have setup your VM and installed all dependencies, you will be able to successfully build and run the CCF test suite that will deploy a local CCF network.

First, checkout the CCF repository:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone git@github.com:microsoft/CCF.git

To build CCF from source, run the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd CCF
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ cmake -GNinja .. 
    $ ninja

.. note:::

    CCF defaults to building in the `RelWithDebInfo <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html>`_ configuration.

.. warning::

    A machine with at least 32Gb of memory is recommended to build CCF with the default compiler.

Build Switches
--------------

The full list of build switches can be obtained by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cmake -L ..

The most common build switches include:

* **BUILD_TESTS**: Boolean. Build all tests for CCF. Default to ON.
* **SAN**: Boolean. Build unit tests with Address and Undefined behaviour sanitizers enabled. Default to OFF.

Run Tests
---------

Unit tests and C++ benchmarks can be run directly with ``ctest``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd build
    $ ctest --output-on-failure -L unit -j$(nproc --all)

End-to-end Python tests are run via ``uv run`` using the test runner:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd build
    $ uv run --project ../tests python ../tests/run_e2e.py --list   # list available tests
    $ uv run --project ../tests python ../tests/run_e2e.py          # run all e2e tests

Test defaults (binary dir, constitution paths, etc.) are read from ``e2e_config.json`` in the build directory, which is generated by CMake. Add ``-R <pattern>`` to filter by test name, ``-L <label>`` to filter by label, or ``--timeout <seconds>`` to set a per-test timeout.

Build Older Versions of CCF
---------------------------

Building older versions of CCF may require a different toolchain than the one used to build the current ``main`` branch.
To build a 5.x version of CCF locally without having to install another toolchain that may conflict with the current one, it is possible to use the ``ghcr.io/microsoft/ccf/ci/(default|sgx)`` images.
The version tag of the ``ccf/ci`` image used to build the old version can be found in the :ccf_repo:`.github/workflows/ci.yml` YAML file.

Update the Documentation
------------------------

It is possible to preview local documentation changes by running

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./livehtml.sh

or if there are no Doxygen changes

.. code-block:: bash

    $ SKIP_DOXYGEN=ON ./livehtml.sh
